# SR 03-16: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 03-16 on Application Filing Information web page  -- September 8, 2003

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** September 8, 2003
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2003/sr0316.htm](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2003/sr0316.htm)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
  OF THE
  FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
  WASHINGTON, D. C.  20551


  DIVISION OF BANKING
    SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
   SR 03-16
      September 8, 2003


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF 
   SUPERVISION AND APPROPRIATE APPLICATIONS AND EXAMINATION 
   STAFF AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK AND TO DOMESTIC 
   AND FOREIGN BANKING ORGANIZATIONS SUPERVISED BY THE 
   FEDERAL RESERVE
SUBJECT:  Application Filing Information Web Page
Board staff has developed an online resource for 
   banking organizations and others interested in how 
   to submit banking applications to the Federal Reserve. 
   The new Application Filing Information Web Page is 
   located on the Board's public web site at www.federalreserve.gov/generalinfo/applications/afi/.  

The new web page provides general guidance with respect 
   to the regulatory requirements and processing standards 
   relating to applications submitted to the Federal 
   Reserve by U.S. or foreign banking organizations. 
   It describes the statutory factors considered by 
   the Federal Reserve in evaluating an application, 
   including the banking organization's record of compliance 
   with the Community Reinvestment Act. Specific types 
   of applications submitted to the Federal Reserve 
   are described, as well as related newspaper publication 
   instructions and processing timeframes. The web page 
   also provides links to application forms. In addition, 
   it identifies contacts at each Reserve Bank to whom 
   questions or comments can be directed. 
Reserve Banks are asked to distribute this SR letter 
   to their applications and examination staffs, and 
   to the domestic and foreign banking organizations 
   in their districts. Should you have any questions 
   regarding the new web site, please contact Michael Sexton, 
   Supervisory Financial Analyst, Division of Banking 
   Supervision and Regulation, at (202) 452-3009.

Richard Spillenkothen
   Director


SR letters | 
      2003 
      Home | Banking 
        information and regulation
        Accessibility 
        | Contact Us
      Last update: July 21, 2005
