# SR 03-15: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 03-15 on Interagency Advisory on the Use of the Federal Reserve's Primary Credit Program in Effective Liquidity Management -- July 25, 2003

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** July 25, 2003
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2003/sr0315.htm](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2003/sr0315.htm)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
  OF THE
  FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
  WASHINGTON, D. C.  20551


  DIVISION OF BANKING
    SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
   SR 03-15
      July 25, 2003
	  Revised October 1, 2020



Note: The attachment to this letter generally describes the impact of a foreign banking organization's (FBO) strength-of-support assessment (SOSA) ranking on eligibility for primary credit. On December 7, 2017, the Federal Reserve announced the elimination of the SOSA and explained that it will cease assigning SOSA rankings on the effective date of a final Payment System Risk (PSR) Policy that does not include reliance upon SOSA rankings. See SR 17-13.  On April 1, 2019 the Board approved amendments to Part II of the PSR Policy to remove references to the SOSA ranking for determining an FBO's eligibility for a positive net debit cap, the size of its net debit cap, and its eligibility to request a streamlined procedure to obtain maximum daylight overdraft capacity (84 FR 12049 (April 1, 2019)). The implementation date for these amendments is October 1, 2020. See also the Board's March 24, 2020 press release and SR 17-13.
TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF 
   SUPERVISION AND APPROPRIATE SUPERVISORY AND EXAMINATION 
   STAFF AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK AND TO DOMESTIC 
   AND FOREIGN BANKING ORGANIZATIONS SUPERVISED BY THE 
   FEDERAL RESERVE
SUBJECT:  Interagency 
   Advisory on the Use of the Federal Reserve's Primary 
   Credit Program in Effective Liquidity Management
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
   the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
   Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office 
   of Thrift Supervision, and the National Credit Union 
   Administration (collectively, the Agencies) have 
   issued the attached Interagency Advisory on the 
   Use of the Federal Reserve's Primary Credit Program 
   in Effective Liquidity Management. The interagency 
   advisory presents information on the new Federal 
   Reserve primary and secondary discount window programs 
   and provides guidance on the appropriate use of primary 
   credit in an effective liquidity management program 
   to the directors, management, examiners and supervisors 
   of depository institutions. 
The advisory explains that the new primary credit 
   program is designed to provide depository institutions 
   with an additional tool for managing short-term liquidity 
   risks through the extension of short-term credit 
   to eligible institutions at a rate above the target 
   federal funds rate. An important goal of the primary 
   credit program is to reduce institutions' reluctance 
   to use the window as a source of back-up, short-term 
   liquidity. Since primary credit can serve as a viable 
   source of back-up, short term funds, supervisors 
   and examiners should view the occasional use of primary 
   credit as appropriate and unexceptional. 
The primary credit facility is only one of many tools 
   that institutions may utilize in managing their liquidity 
   risk profile. An institution's management should 
   ensure that the institution maintains adequate access 
   to a diversified array of funding sources, including 
   liquid assets such as high-grade investment securities 
   and a diversified mix of wholesale and retail borrowings. 

If an institution incorporates discount window borrowings 
   in its contingency plans, the plans should be updated 
   in light of the new programs. Management also should 
   occasionally test the institution's ability to borrow 
   at the discount window to ensure that there are no 
   unexpected impediments or complications should such 
   lines need to be utilized. 
Reserve Banks are asked to send a copy of this SR letter 
   and the interagency advisory to senior management 
   at domestic and foreign banking organizations supervised 
   by the Federal Reserve. If you have any questions, 
   please contact Jim Embersit, Assistant Director 
   (202-452-5249), or Mary Frances Monroe, 
   Senior Supervisory Financial Analyst (202-452-5231), 
   Market and Liquidity Risk Section.
Richard Spillenkothen
   Director


 
  Attachment:
   Interagency Advisory on the Use of 
      the Federal Reserve's Primary Credit Program in Effective Liquidity Management 
      (331 KB PDF)
 


SR letters | 
      2003 
      Home | Banking 
        information and regulation
        Accessibility 
        | Contact Us
      Last update: October 1, 2020
