# SR 03-1: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 03-1 on account management and loss allowance methodology for credit card lending -- January 8, 2003

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** January 8, 2003
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2003/sr0301.htm](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2003/sr0301.htm)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
  OF THE
  FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
  WASHINGTON, D. C.  20551


  DIVISION OF BANKING
    SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
   SR 03-1
      January 8, 2003


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF 
   SUPERVISION AND APPROPRIATE SUPERVISORY AND EXAMINATION 
   STAFF AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK AND TO BANKING 
   ORGANIZATIONS SUPERVISED BY THE FEDERAL RESERVE
SUBJECT:  Account Management 
   and Loss Allowance Methodology for Credit Card Lending
On January 8, 2003, the Federal Reserve, 
   along with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 
   the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the 
   Office of Thrift Supervision, under the auspices 
   of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination 
   Council, issued the attached supervisory account 
   management and loss allowance guidance for credit 
   card lending.  The agencies developed the guidance 
   to clarify expectations regarding account management, 
   risk management, and loss allowance practices with 
   respect to this activity. 
In addition to setting forth supervisory expectations 
   with regard to credit line management, over-limit 
   practices, minimum payments and negative amortization, 
   and workout and forbearance practices, the guidance 
   clarifies various reporting requirements related 
   to income recognition and loss allowance practices. 

The final guidance differs in some respects from 
   the draft guidance issued on July 22, 2002, 
   for informal industry review.  In particular, 
   the final guidance notes that workout programs should 
   generally strive to have borrowers repay credit card 
   debt within 60 months.  The draft guidance 
   noted that workout programs should be generally consistent 
   with certain debt management plans typically structured 
   to result in repayment within 48 months.  
   While the draft guidance combined the discussion 
   of over-limit practices and negative amortization, 
   the final guidance separately addresses these two issues.  
   The final guidance discussion of line increase programs, 
   as well as income recognition and loss allowance 
   practices, remains substantively unchanged from the 
   July draft guidance.
Reserve Banks are asked to distribute this SR letter 
   to the banking organizations supervised by the Federal 
   Reserve that engage in credit card lending as well 
   as to supervisory staff.  Questions may be directed 
   to Arleen Lustig, Supervisory Financial Analyst 
   (202) 452-2987; Barbara Bouchard, Assistant 
   Director (202) 452-3072; or Norah Barger, 
   Deputy Associate Director (202) 452-2402.

Richard SpillenkothenDirector


 
   Attachment:
   Credit Card Lending 
      (446 KB PDF)


SR letters | 
      2003 
      Home | Banking 
        information and regulation
        Accessibility 
        | Contact Us
      Last update: February 21, 2006
