# SR 04-4: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 04-4 on accounting for deferred compensation agreements -- February 11, 2004

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** February 11, 2004
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2004/sr0404.htm](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2004/sr0404.htm)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
  OF THE
  FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
  WASHINGTON, D. C.  20551


  DIVISION OF BANKING
    SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
   SR 04-4
      February 11, 2004


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF 
   SUPERVISION AND APPROPRIATE SUPERVISORY AND EXAMINATION 
   STAFF AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK AND TO DOMESTIC 
   AND FOREIGN BANKING ORGANIZATIONS SUPERVISED BY THE 
   FEDERAL RESERVE
SUBJECT:  Accounting 
   for Deferred Compensation Agreements
The Federal Reserve, along with the Office of the 
   Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit 
   Insurance Corporation, and the Office of Thrift Supervision 
   (the agencies), have issued the attached Interagency 
   Advisory on Accounting for Deferred Compensation 
   Agreements and Bank-Owned Life Insurance (BOLI). 
   Consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), 
   the advisory highlights the appropriate accounting 
   for obligations under a type of deferred compensation 
   agreement commonly referred to as a revenue neutral 
   plan or an indexed retirement plan. The benefits 
   payable under these plans are often based on the 
   performance of investments in BOLI. 
State member banks should review their accounting 
   for these agreements to ensure that they are being 
   properly reported in accordance with this advisory. 
   Banks should reflect any necessary changes for these 
   agreements in their March 31, 2004, Call Reports 
   as described in the guidance. Banks are not required 
   to file amended Call Reports unless specifically 
   directed by their Reserve Bank. While the interagency 
   advisory applies to banks, it should also be followed 
   by bank holding companies and U.S. branches 
   and agencies of foreign banking organizations that 
   file GAAP-based regulatory reports.
Reserve Banks are asked to distribute this SR letter 
   and the attached interagency advisory to state member 
   banks, bank holding companies, and foreign banking 
   organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve 
   as well as to supervisory and examination staff. 
   Questions pertaining to this letter should be directed 
   to Arthur Lindo, Project Manager (202) 452-2695, 
   Douglas Carpenter, Supervisory Financial Analyst 
   (202) 452-2205, or Salome Tinker, Senior 
   Financial Analyst (202) 452-3034, in the Accounting 
   Policy & Disclosure and Regulatory Reports sections.
Richard Spillenkothen
   Director


 
   Attachment:
   Interagency Advisory on Accounting 
      for Deferred Compensation Agreements and Bank-Owned Life Insurance (BOLI) 
      (703 KB PDF)


SR letters | 
      2004 
      Home | Banking 
        information and regulation
        Accessibility 
        | Contact Us
      Last update: February 21, 2006
