# SR 04-17: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 04-17 on FFIEC guidance on the use of free and open source software -- December 6, 2004

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** December 6, 2004
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2004/sr0417.htm](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2004/sr0417.htm)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
  OF THE
  FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
  WASHINGTON, D. C.  20551


  DIVISION OF BANKING
    SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
   SR 04-17
      December 6, 2004


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF 
   SUPERVISION
   AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK				
SUBJECT:  FFIEC Guidance 
   on the use of Free and Open Source Software
The federal banking, thrift, and credit union regulatory 
   agencies have published guidance for examiners, financial 
   institutions, and technology service providers on 
   the acquisition and use of free and open source software (FOSS). 
   FOSS refers to software that users are permitted 
   to run, study, modify, and redistribute without paying 
   a licensing fee. Some of the most well-known examples 
   of FOSS are the Linux operating system, Apache web 
   server, and mySQL database. The use of FOSS is increasing 
   within the information technology and financial services 
   industries.
The agencies are of the opinion that the use of FOSS 
   does not pose risks that are fundamentally different 
   from risks presented by proprietary or self-developed 
   software. However, the acquisition and use of FOSS 
   necessitates implementation of unique risk management 
   practices. This guidance supplements the FFIEC IT 
   Examination Handbook, "Development and Acquisition 
   Booklet" by addressing strategic, operational, 
   and legal risk considerations in acquiring and using 
   FOSS. 
Reserve Banks are asked to distribute this guidance 
   to banking organizations and technology service providers 
   supervised by the Federal Reserve. If you have any 
   questions regarding this letter, please contact Adrienne Haden, 
   Manager, Operational and Information Technology Risk, 
   (202) 452- 2058 or Blaine Jones, Supervisory 
   EDP Analyst, (202) 452-3759.
               
Richard Spillenkothen
   Director


 
   Attachment:
   Risk Management of Free and Open 
      Source Software (980 KB PDF)


SR letters | 
      2004 
      Home | Banking 
        information and regulation
        Accessibility 
        | Contact Us
      Last update: February 21, 2006
