# SR 06-8: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 06-8 on reports of examinations of government securities activities -- April 14, 2006

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** April 14, 2006
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2006/SR0608.htm](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2006/SR0608.htm)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
  OF THE
  FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
  WASHINGTON, D. C.  20551


  DIVISION OF BANKING
    SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
   SR 06-8
      April 14, 2006


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION 
   AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
SUBJECT:  Reports of Examinations of Government 
   Securities Activities
This letter reduces the reporting requirements for examinations of government 
   securities custodial activities of state member banks, branches, and agencies. 
   Under AD 91-26, Reserve Banks are required to file with Board staff a 
   separate report form FR 1468 for each government securities broker or 
   government securities dealer examination, and each review of stand-alone government 
   securities custodial activities. 
Effective immediately, AD 91-26 is withdrawn and the form FR 1468 
   is eliminated. Examiners will no longer be required to complete a FR 1468 
   report form when they examine stand-alone government securities custodial 
   activities. Rather, Reserve Banks will be required to report to Board staff 
   only those findings from examinations of government securities broker or dealer 
   operations of state member banks, branches, or agencies subject to Federal 
   Reserve supervision. 
This letter does not change the supervisory responsibility of Reserve Banks 
   with regard to government securities custodial activities under the risk-focused 
   supervision process, but merely alters internal Federal Reserve communication 
   practices.
Background
Government securities brokers and dealers have been regulated since 1987, 
   when the U.S. Treasury adopted regulations implementing the Government 
   Securities Act of 1986 (GSA). Reserve Banks are charged with 
   the responsibility of examining the government securities activities of state 
   member banks, uninsured state branches and agencies of foreign banks, and 
   Edge Corporations (if applicable) located within their districts for 
   compliance with Treasury rules. The Federal Reserve is responsible for supervising 
   the government securities broker-dealer activities of roughly three dozen 
   state member banks and foreign banking offices for which the Federal Reserve 
   is designated as the "appropriate regulatory agency" under the Securities 
   Exchange Act of 1934.1 
   Federal Reserve supervisory responsibilities under the GSA also encompass 
   the government securities custodial operations at hundreds of supervised institutions 
   that hold government securities for customers but do not engage in government 
   securities broker-dealer activities. Under AD 91-26, Reserve Banks were 
   required to report the results of all reviews of government securities activities 
   to Board staff using FR 1468. This internal reporting process was adopted, 
   in part, to enable Board staff to furnish feedback to Treasury on GSA rule 
   compliance. 
Revised reporting procedures
Because Treasury's custody rules have remained unchanged for over a decade 
   and bank compliance with these rules has been generally satisfactory, it is 
   no longer necessary for Reserve Banks to furnish separately to Board staff 
   the results of reviews solely on custodial activities of depository institutions 
   subject to Federal Reserve supervision. Rather, going forward, Reserve Banks 
   will be required to report separately to Board staff only the results of reviews 
   of government securities broker-dealer activities (and such broker-dealer's 
   related custodial activities). Moreover, in making these reports Reserve Banks 
   have the option of either using the attached separate Summary Report of 
   Government Securities Broker-Dealer Activities (GSB-D report) or 
   forwarding a copy of the relevant section of the examination report that contains 
   the same information as required in the GSB-D report. Such reports should 
   be transmitted to the Market and Liquidity Risk Section at Mail Stop 185, 
   to the attention of Genevievette Walker.
Other matters relating to custodial activities
Although this letter discontinues the separate reporting of the results of 
   the reviews pertaining solely to government securities custodial activities, 
   Reserve Banks need to ensure that they fully consider their supervisory responsibilities 
   under the GSA in formulating their supervisory plans and conducting risk-focused 
   examinations. In this regard, two key factors should be considered concerning 
   government securities custodial activities. First, all depository institutions 
   that hold government securities for customers, including securities under 
   repurchase agreements, are subject to Treasury's GSA custody rules.2 
   Second, certain financial institutions that are exempt from the definition 
   of a government securities broker or dealer are, nevertheless, subject to 
   the Treasury government securities broker or dealer custody rules when they 
   engage in hold-in-custody repurchase agreements. Under such agreements the 
   financial institution retains custody of securities that are the subject of 
   a repurchase agreement between the financial institution and a counterparty.3 
   These issues are fully described in the Board's specialty examination procedures 
   pertaining to government securities activities referenced in SR 87-37 
   and SR 93-40. 
Questions should be directed to Mike Schoenfeld, Senior Supervisory Financial 
   Analyst, at (202) 452-2836, or Genevievette Walker, Supervisory 
   Financial Analyst, at (202) 452-2261. Any information regarding significant 
   issues or violations associated with government securities custodial activities 
   at financial institutions that are not government securities brokers or dealers 
   should also be directed to these individuals.
Richard Spillenkothen
   Director


 
   Attachment:
   Summary Report of Government Securities 
      Broker-Dealer Activities 
      (84 KB PDF) 
   Supersedes:
   AD 91-26 (SA)
   Cross Reference: 
   SR 87-37; SR 88-26; SR 90-1; 
      SR 93-40; SR 94-5.



 Notes: 
   
      See section 3(a) (34) (G).  Return to text
      See 17 CFR 450, which governs holdings of government 
         securities for customers, except those held in a fiduciary capacity (450.3).  Return to text
      See 17 CFR 403.5(a) and (d) and SR 93-40. 
         Separate reporting on the GSB-D form is not required for a government 
         securities custodian that engages in hold-in-custody repurchase agreements, 
         but which is otherwise exempt from filing notice as a government securities 
         broker or dealer.  Return to text
   




SR letters | 
      2006 
      Home | Banking 
        information and regulation
        Accessibility 
        | Contact Us
      Last update: April 17, 2006
