# SR 19-11: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 19-11on ​joint statement on risk-focused Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering supervision -- July 24, 2019 (Revised July 24, 2019)

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** July 22, 2019
**Applicability:** This guidance applies to all financial institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve that are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act.
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/supervisionreg/srletters/sr1911.htm](https://www.federalreserve.gov/supervisionreg/srletters/sr1911.htm)

---

#title p{margin:0px;border:0px;padding:0px;display:inline;}
                    SR 19-11: Joint Statement on Risk-Focused Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Supervision
                    
                    
                        
                            
                        
                        
                            BOARD OF GOVERNORS
                            OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20551
                        
                        
                            
                            DIVISION OF 
                            SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
                            
                
                            
                            SR 19-11
                            July 22, 2019
                            Revised July 24, 2019
                            
                        
                    
                    
                                
                    
                        On July 24, 2019, the Joint Statement on Risk-Focused Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Supervision was revised. Footnote 9 was updated to 31 C.F.R § 1020.210(b)(5).
                    
                    
                                
                    
                        TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
                    
                    
                    
                        SUBJECT:
                        Joint Statement on Risk-Focused Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Supervision
                    
                    
                    
                        Applicability:  This guidance applies to all financial institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve that are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (collectively, the federal banking agencies) and the U.S Department of the Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) are issuing the attached joint statement to emphasize their risk-focused approach to examinations of banks' Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering (BSA/AML) compliance programs.

The statement is intended to improve the transparency in the federal banking agencies' risk-focused approach for planning and performing BSA/AML examinations and does not establish new legal or regulatory requirements, nor does it establish new supervisory expectations.

As explained in the attached joint statement, federal banking agency examiners evaluate the adequacy of a bank's BSA/AML compliance program relative to its risk profile as well as compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Examiners review risk management practices to evaluate and assess whether a bank has developed and implemented effective processes to identify, measure, monitor, and control risks. The federal banking agencies and FinCEN recognize that banks vary in focus1 and complexity and that these differences create for each bank a unique risk profile. Accordingly, the scope of each BSA/AML examination varies by bank. Federal banking agency examiners conduct risk-focused BSA/AML examinations, and tailor examination plans and procedures based on the risk profile of each bank.

Federal Reserve Banks are asked to distribute this letter to the supervised institutions in their districts and to appropriate supervisory staff. Questions regarding this letter should be directed to the following individuals:


	Division of Supervision and Regulation:  Koko Ives, Manager, BSA/AML Compliance Section, at (202) 973-6163 or Jennifer White, Lead Financial Institution and Policy Analyst, at (202) 452-3964; or
	Legal Division:  Jason Gonzalez, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 452-3275.


In addition, supervised organizations may send questions via the Board's public website.2
                    
                    
                    
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                
                                    signed by
                                    Michael S. Gibson
                                    Director
                                    Division of 
                                    Supervision and Regulation
                                
                            
                        
                        
                          
                    
                    
                                
                    
                        Attachments:
                        
	Joint Statement on Risk-Focused Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Supervision (Revised July 24, 2019)

                    
                    
                    
                                
                    
                        Notes:
                        
	 For example, a bank with a localized community focus likely has a stable, known customer base.  Return to text.
	 See, http://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/contactus/feedback.aspx.  Return to text.
