# SR 90-31: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 90-31 (FIS) on bank holding company funding from sweep accounts -- September 21, 1990

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** September 21, 1990
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/1990/SR9031.HTM](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/1990/SR9031.HTM)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORSOF THEFEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEMWASHINGTON, D. C.  20551




DIVISION OF BANKINGSUPERVISION AND REGULATION


SR 90-31 (FIS)
September 21, 1990  


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION
          AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK



SUBJECT:
Bank Holding Company Funding from Sweep Accounts



                        A key principle underlying the Federal Reserve's
supervision of bank holding companies is that such companies
should be operated in a way that promotes the soundness of their
subsidiary banks.  Holding companies are expected to avoid
funding strategies or practices that could undermine public
confidence in the liquidity or stability of their banks.
Consequently, bank holding companies should develop and maintain
funding programs that are consistent with their lending and
investment activities and that provide adequate liquidity to the
parent company and its nonbank subsidiaries.

Funding by Sweeping Deposit Accounts

                        A principal objective of a bank holding company's
funding strategy should be to maintain an adequate degree of
liquidity at the parent company and its subsidiaries.  Funding
mismatches can exacerbate an otherwise manageable period of
financial stress and, in the extreme, undermine public confidence
in an organization's viability.  In developing and carrying out
funding programs, bank holding companies should give special
attention to the use of overnight or extremely short-term
liabilities since a loss of confidence in the issuing
organization could lead to an immediate funding problem.
Accordingly, bank holding companies relying on overnight or
extremely short-term funding sources should maintain a level of
superior quality assets, namely, assets that can be immediately
liquidated or converted to cash with minimal loss, that is at
least equal to the amount of those funding sources.

                        A potential source of funding mismatch arises from the
use of what has been commonly referred to as deposit sweeps.
This practice is based upon an agreement with a subsidiary bank's
deposit customers (typically corporate accounts) which permits
these customers to reinvest amounts in their deposit accounts
above a designated level in overnight obligations of the parent
bank holding company.  These obligations include such instruments
as commercial paper, program notes, and master notes.

                        In view of the extremely short-term maturity of most
sweep arrangements, banking organizations should exercise great
care when investing the proceeds.  Appropriate uses of the
proceeds of deposit sweep arrangements are limited to short-term
bank obligations, short-term U.S. Government securities, or other
highly liquid, readily marketable, investment grade assets that
can be disposed of with minimal loss of principal.1  Use of such
proceeds to finance mismatched asset positions, such as those
involving leases, loans, or loan participations, can lead to
liquidity problems at the parent company and are not considered
appropriate.  The absence of a clear ability to redeem overnight
or extremely short-term liabilities when they become due should
generally be viewed as an unsafe and unsound banking activity.

                        Reserve Bank supervisory and examination personnel are
asked to ensure that bank holding companies and state member
banks are in compliance with this and related supervisory letters
addressing the marketing of uninsured debt instruments, including
master notes and other sweep arrangements.  Banking organizations
not in compliance should take the necessary steps to achieve full
compliance within a reasonable period of time.  Reserve Banks
should provide copies of this supervisory letter to any bank
holding company engaged in sweep arrangements with their
subsidiary banks, or to any other organization if necessary to
facilitate compliance.

William Taylor
Staff Director




Cross-References:
SR 80-620

 SR 90-19
 SR 90-20






Footnotes

1.  Some banking organizations have interpreted language in a 1987 letter signed by the Secretary of the Board as condoning funding practices that may not be consistent with the principles set forth in this supervisory letter and prior Board rulings.  The 1987 letter involved a limited set of facts and circumstances that pertained to a particular banking organization;  it did not establish or revise Federal Reserve Policies on the proper use of the proceeds of short-term funding sources.  In any event, banking organizations should not be relying on the 1987 letter to justify the manner in which they use the proceeds of sweep arrangements.  Banking organizations employing sweep arrangements.  Banking organizations employing sweep arrangements are expected to ensure that these arrangements conform with the policies contained in the supervisory letter on bank holding company funding and liquidity dated June 22, 1990 and this supervisory letter.  Return to text








SR letters | 1990


Home | Banking information and regulation
Accessibility | Contact Us
Last update: March 17, 2010
