# SR 90-3: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 90-3 (IB) on foreign (non-US) currency denominated deposits offered at domestic depository institutions -- January 19, 1990

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** January 19, 1990
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/1990/SR9003.HTM](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/1990/SR9003.HTM)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORSOF THEFEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEMWASHINGTON, D. C.  20551




DIVISION OF BANKINGSUPERVISION AND REGULATION


SR 90-3 (IB)
January 19, 1990


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION
          AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK



SUBJECT:
Foreign (Non-US) Currency Denominated Deposits Offered At Domestic Depository Institutions




                        In response to an inquiry forwarded to the Board from
the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System decided that after December 31, 1989, it
would to no longer object to the issuance of foreign (non-U.S.)
currency denominated deposits by depository institutions in the
United States.  As domestic deposits, these deposits are
subject to reserve requirements specified in Regulation D and
are expected to be insured and assessable for insurance
premiums within insured institutions, unless otherwise stated
by the FDIC.  These deposits must be converted to the U.S.
dollar equivalent in order to determine whether the bank is
obligated to file the Currency Transaction Report ("CTR"), IRS
Form 4789.  Regulation CC governing the availability of funds
and collection of checks in U.S. dollar denominated transaction
accounts is not applicable to foreign currency denominated
deposits.

                        These instruments are anticipated to be structured in
one of three ways:  1) the bank may receive foreign currency
from the depositor and at maturity of the deposit make payment
in the original foreign currency that was received;  2) the
bank may receive U.S. dollars, convert these dollars into a
foreign currency, and at maturity make payment in the foreign
currency or convert the principal and interest back into U.S.
dollars;  or 3) the bank may receive U.S or foreign currency
and index the deposit based on the movement of the exchange
rate of a foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar or to
another foreign currency.

                        Instruments with a return indexed to the performance
of a currency relative to the U.S. dollar or another currency,
as in example 3 above, may be considered a futures contract
under the Commodity Exchange Act and subject to regulation by
the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).  This issue
is currently under review by the CFTC.

                        The sophistication of this product also warrants
appropriate customer disclosure by the bank pertaining to the
potential risks of these instruments.  Advertising of interest
paid on all deposits is subject to Regulation Q.  In order to
protect the bank from adverse litigation, institutions offering
such deposits should disclose to the customer, preferably in
writing, that the principal deposited is subject to exchange
rate risk which may adversely impact the amount of interest and
principal returned in U.S. dollar terms.

                        Several foreign countries have policies and
restrictions concerning the off-shore issuance of financial
instruments denominated in their currencies.  Banks should be
aware of the off-shore issuance policies of each country in
whose currency the bank is offering deposits.

                        The Federal Reserve System does not contemplate
creating a clearing mechanism for foreign currency denominated
deposits.  Institutions offering such instruments are expected
to provide for the clearing of these instruments.

                        Banks offering these deposits are expected to develop
and/or augment foreign exchange policies, procedures and
internal controls to monitor and control possible risk to the
bank from these instruments.  Foreign (non-U.S.) currency
deposits held in U.S. offices are to be included in the
institution's overall consolidated foreign currency position
and limits.  Deficiencies and exceptions in internal controls
should be noted in the examination report.

                        For reporting purposes, foreign (non-U.S.) currency
denominated deposits held at U.S. offices must be converted to
the U.S. dollar equivalent, as per respective reporting
instructions, and included in all existing Federal Reserve
reports that collect information on deposits at U.S. offices of
depository institutions.  A list of affected Federal Reserve
(FR) reports is provided as attachment 1.  In addition, a new
report, the Report of Foreign (non-U.S.) Currency Deposits (FR
2915), will be collected from depository institutions that also
file the Report of Transaction Accounts, Other Deposits and
Vault Cash (FR 2900).  Examination staff is requested to
ascertain proper filing of these reports by institutions
offering foreign currency deposits.  Information on the
treatment of foreign currency denominated deposits on reports
collected by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination
Council (FFIEC) will be forthcoming from the FFIEC.

                        A confidential survey of institutions planing to
offer foreign currency denominated deposits is provided in
attachment II.  This information is not to be made available to
the public and is for supervisory purposes only.  Henceforth,
reserve bank staff may determine which institutions offer these
instruments by monitoring the Report of Foreign (non-U.S.)
Currency Deposits (FR 2915).

                        Questions concerning reporting requirements for
Federal Reserve reports may be directed to Martha Bethea
(x3181) or Geary Cunningham (x3830) at the Board.  Bank
supervisory questions related to foreign (non-U.S.) currency
denominated deposits should be directed to Michael Martinson
(x3640) or Hank Calenti (x3033) at the Board.


William A. Ryback
Deputy Associate Director


Attachments maybe obtained from Federal Reserve Bank








SR letters | 1990


Home | Banking information and regulation
Accessibility | Contact Us
Last update: July 26, 2001
