# SR 90-33: FRB: Supervisory Letter SR 90-33 (FIS) on information sharing with the Federal Home Loan Banks -- September 21, 1990

**Issuer:** Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
**Division:** Division of Supervision and Regulation
**Date:** September 21, 1990
**Applicability:** 
**Source:** [https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/1990/SR9033.HTM](https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/1990/SR9033.HTM)

---

BOARD OF GOVERNORSOF THEFEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEMWASHINGTON, D. C.  20551




DIVISION OF BANKINGSUPERVISION AND REGULATION


SR 90-33 (FIS)
September 21, 1990


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION
          AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK



SUBJECT:
Information Sharing with the Federal Home Loan Banks




                        Section 719 of Title VII of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) provides
that, upon request by any Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB), the
Federal financial institutions supervisory agencies shall make
available to the FHLB reports, records and other information
relating to the financial condition of any member of a FHLB or any
institution contemplating having transactions with a FHLB.

                        A working group of the FFIEC Task Force on Supervision
was formed in October 1989 to develop a uniform approach to
implement the statutory mandate.  Based on the recommendation of
the working group, the FFIEC task force approved the attached
confidentiality agreement which covers the sharing of agency
confidential information with the FHLBs.  The agreement has been
forwarded to the agencies and the FHLBs per the letter attached.
The FFIEC task force also approved a uniform fee of $100 per
examination report provided to the FHLBs.  Fees for other
supervisory information will generally be based on the assessments
used for information released under the Freedom of Information Act.

                        Should you receive requests from a FHLB on a particular
institution, you may provide publicly available information.
However, until further notice, any requests for confidential
information pursuant to Section 719 of FIRREA should be referred to
the Board of Governors (to the attention of James I. Garner) for
handling.  

                        If you have questions regarding this matter please call
Jim Garner (202-452-2704).


Don E. Kline
Associate Director

Supersedes SR 89-28



ATTACHMENTS NOT ELECTRONICALLY TRANSMITTED
List of Federal Home Loan Bank Addresses
Federal Home Loan Bank Confidentiality Agreement




BOARD OF GOVERNORS
OF THE
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
WASHINGTON, D. C.  20551


DIVISION OF BANKING
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION


August 20, 1990




Name
Title
Federal Home Loan Bank of 
Address
City,State,Zip

Dear  Mr.:

                        I am pleased to forward on behalf of the federal regulatory
agencies an executed copy of the confidentiality agreement
covering the sharing of confidential information between the
agencies and the Federal Home Loan Banks.  The agreement has been
signed by all parties with the exception of the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  When we receive the executed copy
from that agency I will forward it to you.  To facilitate your
information requests, all the agencies have provided Mr. Jonathan
West of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis with the name
of a contact person.

                        The agencies have established a standard fee of $100 per
examination report provided to the Federal Home Loan Banks.  Fees
for other supervisory information will generally be based on the
assessments used by the respective agencies for information
provided under the Freedom of Information Act.  The individual
agencies will administer information requests, including fee
assessment, in accordance with internal procedures.  

                        We understand that some of the Federal Home Loan Banks may be
requesting examination reports directly from supervised
institutions.  This agreement in no way alters the
confidentiality provisions governing examination reports in the
possession of supervised institutions and disclosure by the
financial institution would likely be a violation of agency
regulations.  Accordingly, all requests for confidential
information should be directed to the appropriate agency.  

                        I appreciate your assistance in these matters.  Should you
have any questions, please feel free to call me at (202) 452-2704
or Terry Schwakopf at (202) 452-2519.

Sincerely,


James I. Garner
Assistant Director








SR letters | 1990


Home | Banking information and regulation
Accessibility | Contact Us
Last update: July 26, 2001
